hello my name is Laurel melon and
welcome to emotional brain training this
method offers a scientific solution to
stress because what it does is train the
brain to process stress optimally the
rationale for that is that most problems
are due to the brain being stuck in
stress in order to figure out how to
process stress optimally we have to look
at the functioning of the brain it turns
out that it as stress increases the
dominant brain area changes the area
that's in charge as a consequence we
need a different process for each
dominant area in the brain in abt we
assign numbers to these brain States and
there are five of them brain state one
is when you feel great you feel balanced
and also feel a sense of reward that you
can feel in your body fulfilled rewarded
on top brain state two is feeling good
feeling in balance and present but not
terribly rewarded three is a little
stressed four is definitely stressed and
five is when you're stressed out
overwhelmed confused so for each of
those brain states there's a tool that
offers the quickest easiest way to get
from that particular level of stress
back to a state of well-being so most of
us begin and our brain has gotten in the
habit of being in stress the brain
determines what is normal which might be
being stressed out or a little stressed
and it begins to defend that it creates
a self a set point so that the brain
likes to stay in that state the
emotional brain only changes with
repeated experience not by insight so it
needs to experience moments of feeling
good or great to begin to change that
setpoint so most of us start when we're
wired somewhere between three four or
five and that's our norm and
we just start and during the day we
check in figure out your number and you
use the tool the corresponds to that
number and you switch your brain state
you do that as a practice throughout the
day what happens over time is the set
point begins to change so that instead
of being stuck in stress we can still be
in all five states throughout the day
because that's normal but the home base
the the set point the comfort zone
becomes more favorable how do you
retrain the emotional brain well we know
that it takes repeated practice over
time and it's progressive so as you move
your number up you can use different
tools than you would when you first
started so we made that into five kits
one two three four five and then a final
kit kit six where the brain really
begins to switch from being comfortable
with stress to being comfortable in the
state of well-being how does this work
well more research on EBT is needed but
the research that has been done is very
interesting because in each of the
studies what happened as changes tended
to be persistent and affect a wide range
of stress-related variables in this
study which was a six-year study
conducted at the University of
California San Francisco people improve
their mood on the average and then
instead of snapping back to the old mood
state it tended to persist wait was the
same instead of losing weight and then
gaining it back
as is typical they continued to keep the
weight off exercise also instead of
snapping back was persistent as was
blood pressure how do you get started
with EBT you just try it out there's two
ways one a four-week wired for joy
Telugu you meet weekly for four weeks 90
minutes each with a certified EBT
in a small group and learned the tools
then you can decide if you want to move
on and actually start the training that
creates lasting change another option
that's very convenient is great start
learning that's on the internet and it's
accessible very easily so thank you for
your interest in EPT and welcome to our
website please look at our research and
look at the different options and I hope
you enjoy the site